.\.venv39\Scripts\Activate.ps1 
python "d:\Cursor AI projects\Capstone2.1\120 transfer now\120 transfer now\app.py"
{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
\fs24 \b Pet ID Malaysia — Full Project Documentation \b0\par
\fs20 Version: 2025-11-28\par
\par
\b 1. Overview \b0\par
- Purpose: Identify individual cats using a triplet-loss embedding model served via a Flask web application.\par
- Core model: EfficientNetV2-S backbone, 512-dim L2-normalized embeddings.\par
- Matching: Top-K using L2 distance on normalized embeddings (cosine shown for convenience).\par
- Data: Per-cat folders, centroid embeddings cached for fast lookup.\par
\par
\b 2. Architecture \b0\par
- Backend: `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/app.py` (Flask)\par
  - Model loading priority: SavedModel → .keras → .h5 → weights (from `D:\\Cursor AI projects\\Capstone2.1\\models`).\par
  - Preprocessing: `keras.applications.efficientnet_v2.preprocess_input` with 224×224 RGB inputs.\par
  - Embedding extraction: `self.embedding_model.predict(...)` → flatten → L2-normalize.\par
  - Matching: L2 distance on normalized vectors; cosine = dot product for reporting.\par
  - Embedding store: Per-cat centroid computed from images; caches saved in project root.\par
  - Maintenance APIs: `/api/health`, `/api/reindex`, `/api/add`.\par
- Frontend: Bootstrap 5 templates (upload, results, found cat pages).\par
\par
\b 3. Key Files & Code References \b0\par
- `app.py`:\par
  - Model load guard and shape logging (only when non-null): `app.py:95–99`.\par
  - EfficientNetV2 preprocessing pipeline: `app.py:122–170`.\par
  - Embedding extraction and normalization: `app.py:189–205`.\par
  - L2 Top-K matching with cosine reporting: `app.py:272–297`.\par
  - Caches saved/loaded: `app.py:217–233`, `app.py:259–266`, `app.py:470`, `app.py:674–677`.\par
  - Maintenance endpoints: `app.py:619–677`.\par
- Templates:\par
  - `templates/index.html`: upload with spinner.\par
  - `templates/results.html`: Top-K cards, cosine badges.\par
  - `templates/found_cat*.html`: found-cat upload & success.\par
- Training:\par
  - `train_cat_identifier_v2.py`: EfficientNetV2-S + triplet loss; TF-compatible augmentation via `tf.image.adjust_*`.\par
- Testing:\par
  - `test_cat_identifier_v2.py`: EfficientNetV2-S backbone, TTA with `tf.image.adjust_*`, model guards, visualization safety.\par
\par
\b 4. Environment & Compatibility \b0\par
- Python: 3.9.\par
- TensorFlow: 2.10.0 (built against NumPy 1.x).\par
- NumPy: 1.23.5 (avoid NumPy 2.x to prevent ABI errors).\par
- OpenCV: 4.7.0.72.\par
- Flask, Pillow, tqdm, matplotlib, scikit-learn.\par
\par
\b 5. Setup & Runbook \b0\par
1) Create & activate venv (Windows):\par
   `py -3.9 -m venv .venv39`\par
   `.venv39\\Scripts\\Activate.ps1`\par
2) Install deps:\par
   `python -m pip install -U pip`\par
   `python -m pip install tensorflow==2.10.0 numpy==1.23.5 opencv-python==4.7.0.72 pillow flask tqdm matplotlib scikit-learn`\par
3) Start app:\par
   `python "D:\\Cursor AI projects\\Capstone2.1\\120 transfer now\\120 transfer now\\app.py"`\par
4) Open URLs:\par
   App: `http://localhost:5000/`\par
   Health: `http://localhost:5000/api/health`\par
\par
\b 6. Data & Caches \b0\par
- Dataset path used by app:\par
  `D:\\Cursor AI projects\\Capstone2.1\\120 transfer now\\120 transfer now\\cat_individuals_dataset\\dataset_individuals_cropped\\cat_individuals_dataset`.\par
- Caches (project root):\par
  - `cat_embeddings_cache.npy` (object array of dict to satisfy type checks).\par
  - `cat_metadata_cache.json`.\par
\par
\b 7. API Endpoints \b0\par
- `GET /api/health` → `{ model_loaded, embeddings_count, dataset_path, img_size }`.\par
- `POST /api/reindex` → rebuild centroid embeddings from dataset.\par
- `POST /api/add` → form fields: `file`, `cat_id`; adds a single image embedding and metadata.\par
\par
\b 8. Frontend UX \b0\par
- Upload page: drag-and-drop, spinner feedback.\par
- Results page: responsive card grid; cosine-based badges (High/Possible/Low match).\par
- Found-cat flow: upload, metadata capture, success page; entries saved to caches.\par
\par
\b 9. Model & Matching Details \b0\par
- Embeddings: 512-dim; normalized (division by L2 norm + epsilon).\par
- Matching: L2 distance on normalized embeddings; smaller is closer.\par
- Cosine similarity: dot product of normalized vectors (for display/badges).\par
\par
\b 10. Training (EfficientNetV2‑S) \b0\par
- Triplet loss with margin; concatenated triplets via wrapper model.\par
- Augmentation: TF `adjust_brightness/adjust_contrast` for TF 2.10 compatibility.\par
- Saving: weights `.h5` and SavedModel directory for robust loading.\par
\par
\b 11. Testing (EfficientNetV2‑S) \b0\par
- TTA: original, horizontal flip, brightness/contrast variants.\par
- Guards: ensure `model is not None` before prediction; visualization manager may be `None`.\par
\par
\b 12. Diagnostics & Stability Fixes \b0\par
- IDE diagnostics resolved by:\par
  - Guarding shape logging: `app.py:95–99`.\par
  - Safe CV2 attribute access via `getattr`: `app.py:116–170`.\par
  - Removing `verbose=0` in predict calls.\par
  - Using object arrays for `np.save` where dicts are stored.\par
  - Defaults for `secure_filename(file.filename or "..." )` to handle `None`.\par
- Lint/IDE config: `.vscode/settings.json` bound to `.venv39`; `pyrightconfig.json` set to Python 3.9, typeCheckingMode=basic.\par
\par
\b 13. Operational Notes \b0\par
- First run may be slower due to cache building; subsequent runs rely on caches.\par
- GPU usage: TensorFlow auto-detects CUDA; enable memory growth if needed.\par
- Dataset hygiene: ensure per-cat folder structure and valid image formats (`.jpg/.jpeg/.png`).\par
\par
\b 14. Troubleshooting \b0\par
- NumPy/TF ABI error (`_ARRAY_API not found`):
  - Pin NumPy to 1.23.5; reinstall OpenCV 4.7.0.72.\par
- Missing modules: activate `.venv39` before running.\par
- Server port conflicts: stop other servers or change port in `app.py`.\par
- Low match quality: verify dataset cropping, consider adding more images per cat.\par
\par
\b 15. Change Log (2025‑11) \b0\par
- Migrated inference to EfficientNetV2‑S with 512-dim embeddings.\par
- Implemented Flask web app with uploads, results, and found-cat flows.\par
- Added maintenance APIs (`/api/health`, `/api/reindex`, `/api/add`).\par
- Built centroid-based embedding database with caching.\par
- Aligned test script to V2 backbone; TF-compatible augmentation.\par
- Environment pinned: Python 3.9, TF 2.10, NumPy 1.23.5, OpenCV 4.7.0.72.\par
- Diagnostics resolved: guards, CV2 attrs, secure filename defaults, np.save object arrays.\par
 - UX fix: Single-click works for upload button and drag area by clearing the hidden file input value before opening the picker; ensures `change` fires when reselecting the same file. Files: `templates/index.html:166, 263, 423–426, 495–500`; `templates/found_cat.html:117, 334–336, 412–416`.\par
\par
\b 16. Future Enhancements \b0\par
- Configurable threshold in app UI; filter by cosine/L2.\par
- Persistent database (SQLite/PostgreSQL) for embeddings/metadata.\par
- Async task for reindexing; progress indicator.\par
- Batch upload and bulk matching tools.\par
\par
\b 17. Contacts & Support \b0\par
- Health check: `http://localhost:5000/api/health`.\par
- Verify model paths under `D\\Cursor AI projects\\Capstone2.1\\models`.\par
- Ensure `.venv39` is active for all CLI commands.\par .\.venv39\Scripts\Activate.ps1 
python "d:\Cursor AI projects\Capstone2.1\120 transfer now\120 transfer now\app.py"
\par
\b 18. Progress Log (Continuous) \b0\par
- 2025-11-28 — Web App Integration & EfficientNetV2-S Migration\par
  • Implemented Flask backend (`120 transfer now/120 transfer now/app.py`) with model load priority: SavedModel → .keras → .h5 → weights.\par
  • Switched preprocessing to `efficientnet_v2.preprocess_input` at 224×224; set `IMG_SIZE=224`.\par
  • Normalized 512-dim embeddings; Top-K matching by L2 distance; cosine similarity for reporting.\par
  • Built per-cat centroid embedding store from dataset folders; added caching at repo root (`cat_embeddings_cache.npy`, `cat_metadata_cache.json`).\par
  • Added maintenance endpoints: `/api/health`, `/api/reindex`, `/api/add`.\par
  • Frontend templates updated for upload spinner and responsive results cards with confidence badges.\par
  • Training script (`train_cat_identifier_v2.py`) aligned to EfficientNetV2-S; replaced Keras 3-only augmentations with `tf.image.adjust_*`.\par
  • Test script (`test_cat_identifier_v2.py`) aligned to EfficientNetV2-S; added model guards; cleaned visualization manager access.\par
  • Environment pinned for compatibility: Python 3.9, TensorFlow 2.10.0, NumPy 1.23.5, OpenCV 4.7.0.72.\par
  • Diagnostics resolved by guarding shape logging (e.g., `app.py:95–99`), safe CV2 attribute access (`getattr` usage around `CascadeClassifier`, `cvtColor`, constants), secure filename defaults, and type‑safe `np.save` object arrays.\par
 - 2025-11-28 — UX Fix: Upload button single-click\par
   • Root cause: browsers avoid firing `change` when the same file is reselected.\par
   • Implementation: clear `fileInput.value` before `fileInput.click()` and on `click` listener.\par
   • Files: `templates/index.html:166, 263, 423–426, 495–500`; `templates/found_cat.html:117, 334–336, 412–416`.\par
\par
\i Ongoing Policy \i0\par
- Every change made will be appended here with date, affected files, and rationale.\par
- Entries include: intent, implementation details, file references (e.g., `app.py:95–99`), and implications for accuracy, performance, and UX.\par
}
  • Performance improvements: vectorized Top‑K matching via prebuilt embedding matrix; model warm‑up to avoid first‑request latency; disabled debug reloader to prevent mid‑request restarts.\par
    ◦ Files: `app.py:62–72` (matrix fields), `app.py:218–225, 267–268` (matrix build after load), `app.py:275–301` (vectorized matching), `app.py:314–322` (warm‑up predict), `app.py:673–677` (debug disabled).\par
    ◦ Rationale: reduce request timeouts/disconnections during upload by improving compute throughput and server stability.\par
  • Warm‑up input preprocessing: pass EfficientNetV2‑preprocessed zeros to `predict` to match runtime input expectations and avoid shape/type errors. (See `app.py:344–349`).\par
\par
\b 19. Detailed UX Fix — Double Dialog Prevention \b0\par
- Problem: The “Choose File” button opened two file dialogs because both the inline button handler and the drag-drop area click listener invoked `fileInput.click()`.\par
- Fix:\par
  • Removed inline `onclick` from the button and assigned `id="chooseFileBtn"`.\par
  • Added a JS click handler on `chooseFileBtn` that calls `e.stopPropagation()` to prevent the parent area’s click listener from firing, then clears and opens the picker.\par
  • Ensured input clearing on `fileInput` click and on drag area click to guarantee the `change` event when reselecting the same file.\par
- Code references:\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/index.html:166` — Button uses `id="chooseFileBtn"` (inline handler removed).\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/index.html:378` — `const chooseFileBtn = document.getElementById('chooseFileBtn');`.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/index.html:505` — `chooseFileBtn.addEventListener('click', (e) => { e.stopPropagation(); fileInput.value=''; fileInput.click(); });`.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/index.html:423–426` — Clear input on `fileInput` click.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/index.html:495–500` — Drag area click clears input then opens picker.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/found_cat.html:117` — Button uses `id="chooseFileBtn"`.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/found_cat.html:288` — `const chooseFileBtn = document.getElementById('chooseFileBtn');`.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/found_cat.html:423` — `chooseFileBtn.addEventListener('click', (e) => { e.stopPropagation(); fileInput.value=''; fileInput.click(); });`.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/found_cat.html:334–336` — Clear input on `fileInput` click.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/templates/found_cat.html:412–416` — Drag area click clears input then opens picker.\par
- Validation steps:\par
  • Click “Choose File” once; verify one dialog and single-image selection yields preview.\par
  • Reselect the same image; confirm preview updates on first try.\par
  • Drag & drop continues to show preview and enables submission where applicable.\par
\par
\b 20. Beginner-Friendly Explanation — What Changed and Why \b0\par
- Think of the upload area like a box with a button inside it. Before, both the box and the button were wired to open the file chooser. So when you clicked the button, \i both\i0 wires fired, and Windows showed you \b two\b0 file chooser windows.\par
- We fixed it by:\par
  • Disconnecting the button’s old inline click wire (removed the inline `onclick`).\par
  • Giving the button its own simple wire (a JavaScript handler) that says: “Stop the box from reacting to this click” (`stopPropagation`), then open the file chooser \i once\i0.\par
  • Clearing the hidden file input’s previous value before opening the chooser. This matters because computers often ignore picking the same file twice unless you clear the old selection first; clearing it makes the next pick look “new” and triggers the preview.\par
- In plain steps, when you click the button now:\par
  1) The button stops the box (drag area) from also handling the click.\par
  2) The button clears the old selection so the system will notice your pick.\par
  3) The button opens the file chooser once.\par
  4) When you pick an image, the page shows a preview and gets the file ready to upload.\par
- Drag & drop already worked fine because it only uses one path (dropping a file directly), and our change makes the button behave the same way: one action, one chooser, one image.\par
- Where this was changed in code:\par
  • Home page button and script: `templates/index.html:166, 378, 423–426, 495–500, 505`.\par
  • Found Cat page button and script: `templates/found_cat.html:117, 288, 334–336, 412–416, 423`.\par
\b 21. UI/UX Contrast Improvements \b0\par
- Goal: Improve readability of muted text on dark and gradient backgrounds to enhance user experience and accessibility.\par
- Changes applied:\par
  • Introduced color variables for dark contexts: `--muted-on-dark`, `--muted-on-gradient`.\par
  • Overrode muted text color within dark sections: `footer .text-muted`, `.bg-dark .text-muted`.\par
  • Overrode muted text color within gradient sections: `.bg-gradient .text-muted`, and restricted hero drag-drop muted text to the gradient context: `.hero-section .drag-drop-content .text-muted`.\par
  • Added focus-visible outlines for interactive elements (`.btn`, `.nav-link`, `.drag-drop-area`, `.form-control`, `.form-select`) to improve keyboard navigation and accessibility.\par
- Code references:\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/static/css/style.css:13–33` — Added `--muted-on-dark`, `--muted-on-gradient` variables.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/static/css/style.css:562–570` — Footer hover remains unchanged for brand consistency.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/static/css/style.css:571–586` — Dark-context muted text and hero gradient muted text overrides.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/static/css/style.css:587–595` — Focus-visible accessibility outlines.\par
- Supported formats text color updated to `text-info` for clearer visibility:\par
  • Home page: `templates/index.html:193` now uses `<small class="text-info">...`\par
  • Found Cat page: `templates/found_cat.html:135–139` replaced `.form-text` block with centered `<small class="text-info">...`\par
- Outcome:\par
  • Muted text now maintains sufficient contrast on dark/gradient backgrounds while preserving original appearance on light cards.\par
  • Improved accessibility and clearer focus states across interactive UI components.\par
\b 22. Visibility Fix — Drag & Drop Content Colors \b0\par
- Problem: Drag & drop content text was forced to white, but the upload area sits on a white card background; white-on-white made text hard to read.\par
- Fix:\par
  • Set `.drag-drop-content` text color to `var(--dark-color)` for high contrast on light cards.\par
  • Set `.upload-icon` color to `var(--primary-color)` so the icon stands out against light backgrounds.\par
- Code references:\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/static/css/style.css:207–209` → `.drag-drop-content { color: var(--dark-color); }`.\par
  • `120 transfer now/120 transfer now/static/css/style.css:211–215` → `.upload-icon { color: var(--primary-color); }`.\par
- Outcome:\par
  • Upload area text is readable on light cards and consistent across pages; icons retain brand color emphasis.\par

\b 23. Feature Addition — Found Cats Map \b0\par
- Goal: visualize the location of found cats on an interactive map, allowing users to see where pets have been spotted.\par
- Implementation:\par
  • Backend: Installed `geopy` and configured `Nominatim` geocoder. Updated `upload_found_cat` in `app.py` to geocode the location string into latitude/longitude coordinates. Created `/api/found-cats-map` endpoint to serve geolocated cat data.\par
  • Frontend: Integrated Leaflet.js in `view_found_cats.html`. Added a map container and custom CSS for circular photo markers. Implemented JS to fetch map data and render markers with popups.\par
- Code references:\par
  • `app.py`: Imports, `geolocator` init, geocoding logic in upload route, and `/api/found-cats-map` route.\par
  • `view_found_cats.html`: Added Leaflet CSS/JS, map container div, custom marker CSS, and map initialization script.\par
- Usage: When a user uploads a found cat with a location (e.g., "Bangsar, Kuala Lumpur"), the system automatically converts it to coordinates and displays it on the map in the "View Found Cats" page.\par

\b 24. Bug Fix — Map Visibility & API Route \b0\par
- Symptom: The map on "View Found Cats" page was empty, and the API endpoint `/api/found-cats-map` returned 404 Not Found.\par
- Cause: The API route definition was accidentally omitted during a previous `app.py` update.\par
- Fix:\par
  • Restored the `/api/found-cats-map` route in `app.py`.\par
  • Ensured `geopy` dependency is listed in `requirements.txt`.\par
  • Ran a coordinate update script to backfill latitude/longitude for existing found cats.\par
 - Verification: Validated that the API now returns JSON data and the map correctly renders markers for found cats.\par
\par
\b 25. Feature Addition — Home Page Map \b0\par
- Goal: Show recent found cats on the homepage with the same photo markers.\par
- Implementation:\par
  • Added Leaflet CSS/JS and custom marker styles to `templates/index.html:11–33, 19–26`.\par
  • Inserted a new “Recent Found Cats” map section `templates/index.html:270–294`.\par
  • Initialized Leaflet and fetched `/api/found-cats-map` `templates/index.html:419–490`.\par
- CSP: Added permissive meta tag to allow map scripts: `templates/index.html:11–19`.\par
- Verification: Map renders and clusters markers; popups show photo, name, location, date.\par
\par
\b 26. Bug Fix — CSP Blocking Map Scripts \b0\par
- Symptom: Browser console showed CSP errors blocking `eval`/inline scripts; map did not load.\par
- Cause: Default policy too strict for Leaflet and inline initialization.\par
- Fix:\par
  • Added `<meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self' https: data: 'unsafe-inline' 'unsafe-eval'; img-src 'self' https: data: blob:;">` in head. Files: `templates/index.html:11–19`; `templates/view_found_cats.html:4–6`.\par
  • Note: Wallet extensions (e.g., MetaMask) may log provider warnings; unrelated to map.\par
\par
\b 27. Data Operations — Populate & Randomize Found Cats \b0\par
- Scripts added:\par
  • `add_all_to_found.py`: mark all dataset cats as `status: 'found'`, set defaults (KL coordinates, date, location).\par
  • `randomize_found_cat_locations.py`: spread found cats across KL/Klang neighborhoods with realistic radii; updates `lat/lng/location`.\par
  • `remove_found_cats.py`: purge found cats (image files, cache entries, subset metadata).\par
- Caches updated: `cat_metadata_cache.json`, `found_cats_metadata.json`; embeddings cache pruned where applicable.\par
- Verification: Home/Found pages list all cats; maps display distributed markers.\par
\par
\b 28. Bug Fix — Images Not Showing (Found/Reunited) \b0\par
- Symptom: Card images blank for dataset-backed entries.\par
- Cause: Templates used `serve_found_cat_image(filename)` which only resolves images in `found_cats_dataset/`; dataset cats use full `image_path`.\par
- Fix:\par
  • Switch to `serve_cat_image(cat_id)` so backend reads `image_path` from metadata.\par
  • Files: `templates/view_found_cats.html:171–176`; `templates/reunited_cats.html:145–149`.\par
- Verification: Cards now render images for both dataset and found-cats entries.\par
\par
\b 29. Model Loading & Inference Compatibility (Keras 3) \b0\par
- Problem: `.savedmodel` not supported by `load_model()` in Keras 3; `.h5` deserialization error on `DepthwiseConv2D(groups=1)`.\par
- Approach:\par
  • Load order: `.keras` → `.h5` → SavedModel with `keras.layers.TFSMLayer` fallback. Files: `app.py:79–141`.\par
  • Warm-up handles both Model and TFSMLayer: `app.py:392–405`.\par
  • Embedding extraction supports `predict()` or callable layer; converts tensors to NumPy; normalizes output. Files: `app.py:229–262`.\par
- Outcome: Model loads reliably; inference works across backends; system initializes successfully.\par
\par
\b 30. Bug Fix — NumPy Cache Incompatibility ("No module named numpy._core") \b0\par
- Symptom: Startup failed in `.venv39` with `No module named 'numpy._core'` when loading `cat_embeddings_cache.npy`.\par
- Root cause: Pickled cache created under a different NumPy/Python version; unpickling in another env attempted to import internal modules that don’t exist.\par
- Fix:\par
  • Added cache-load guard: on failure, rebuild from dataset and re-save caches. Files: `app.py:269–321` (cache path and guarded load in `load_database`).\par
  • Saved embeddings as object arrays: `np.save(..., np.array(self.cat_embeddings, dtype=object))`; loaded with `allow_pickle=True`.\par
  • Ensured `.venv39` uses NumPy 1.23.5 for TF 2.10 compatibility.\par
- Outcome: First run rebuilds caches; subsequent runs start cleanly in the selected venv.\par
\par
\b 31. Environment Compatibility — geopy & Virtual Envs \b0\par
- Issue: `ModuleNotFoundError: geopy` and IDE red underlines due to mismatched interpreters.\par
- Approach:\par
  • Installed `geopy` in the active venv; added `requirements.txt`.\par
  • Added `pyrightconfig.json` with `typeCheckingMode: basic`, venv mapping to `.venv39`, and reduced dynamic-library warnings; diagnostics clear for `app.py`.\par
  • Verified secure filename defaults and analyzer-friendly predict calls. Files: `app.py:241–243`, `396–399`.\par
- Outcome: Consistent environment and clean IDE diagnostics without changing runtime behavior.\par
\par
\b 32. Feature Addition — Sorting in View Found Cats \b0\par
- Goal: Let users sort found cats by common fields and order.\par
- Implementation:\par
  • Backend supports `?sort=<field>&dir=<asc|desc>`. Fields: `upload_time`, `date_found`, `name`, `location`, `id`. Files: `app.py:591–609` (route `view_found_cats`).\par
  • Frontend adds a sort control card with dropdowns and Apply button above the grid. Files: `templates/view_found_cats.html:164–196` (stats end) and `+31 lines` sort form.\par
- Outcome: Users can reorder cards by report time, date found, name, location, or ID in ascending/descending order.\par
\par
\b 33. Data Tools — Mass Add, Randomize, and Purge Found Cats \b0\par
- Scripts:\par
  • `add_all_to_found.py`: marks all dataset cats as found, sets defaults (KL location/coords) and writes `found_cats_metadata.json`.\par
  • `randomize_found_cat_locations.py`: spreads found cats across KL/Klang neighborhoods with realistic radii; updates `lat/lng/location`.\par
  • `remove_found_cats.py`: deletes found-cat images, removes entries from caches, clears `found_cats_metadata.json`.\par
- Usage: Run each script with the active venv’s Python; changes are reflected in both list views and maps.\par
\b 34. UX Improvement — Cat Name Field on Found Cat Upload \b0\par
- Feature: Added optional "Cat Name" input with friendly note: (Don't know the name? Give it one).\par
- Implementation:\par
  • Frontend: `templates/found_cat.html` new input `name="cat_name"` under the upload form.\par
  • Backend: `upload_found_cat` reads `cat_name`; if empty, defaults to `Found Cat <timestamp>`. Files: `app.py:510–519`, `548–560`.\par
- Outcome: Submitted found cats show user-provided names; otherwise a sensible default is used.\par
\b 35. Cat Profile — Structured Fields for Found Cats \b0\par
- Feature: Added structured profile fields (Gender, Age, Vaccinated, Dewormed, Spayed/Neutered, Condition, Body Size, Fur Length, Color).\par
- Implementation:\par
  • Frontend: Inputs added to `templates/found_cat.html` within the upload form.\par
  • Backend: `upload_found_cat` processes new fields and stores them in metadata; also builds a `profile_summary` for quick display. Files: `app.py:514–525`, `548–569`.\par
  • Display: Cards in `templates/view_found_cats.html` now show profile details beneath the description.\par
- Outcome: Each found cat has a consistent profile that helps owners identify pets quickly.\par
\b 36. Breed Field — Classification for Found Cats \b0\par
- Feature: Added a breed selector with common options and Unknown/Other choices.\par
- Implementation:\par
  • Frontend: `templates/found_cat.html` adds `name="breed"` select near Color(s).\par
  • Backend: `upload_found_cat` captures `breed` and stores it in metadata; cards show "Cat: <breed>". Files: `app.py:514–525`, `560–571`; `templates/view_found_cats.html` profile block.\par
- Outcome: Listings include breed information helping owners filter and identify pets more quickly.\par
\b 37. New Section — Lost Cat Reporting \b0\par
- Feature: Added a complete workflow for owners to post lost cats.\par
- Implementation:\par
  • New page: `templates/lost_cat.html` with photo upload, name, last seen location, date lost, profile fields (gender, age, vaccinated, dewormed, spayed/neutered, condition, body size, fur length, color, breed), and contact info.\par
  • Backend: `upload_lost_cat` route saves image to `LOST_CATS_PATH`, extracts embedding, stores metadata with `status: 'lost'`, and geocodes location. Files: `app.py` (routes and constants, adds `LOST_CATS_PATH`, `lost_cat`, `upload_lost_cat`, `view_lost_cats`).\par
  • Listing page: `templates/view_lost_cats.html` to browse lost cat reports with sorting.\par
  • Navigation: Added “Report Lost Cat” link in navbar (`templates/index.html`).\par
- Outcome: Owners can report lost cats; community can view and contact owners; embeddings integrate into matching pipeline.\par
